One of the core tenants of the Spring Framework is dependency injection.
So this is kind of like from the early days of Spring where it really got its roots that dependancy
injection is right up the middle the Spring Framework. Spring Framework is much much bigger much more
robust than just dependency injection.
But if you're new to Spring Framework dependency injection having such a robust toolset around performing
dependency injection is really a game changer in how you develop applications. Gives you a tremendous
amount more flexibility as to how you can compose your applications and have the framework make a lot
of decisions for you at runtime and gives your capabilities.
Now I've seen people do dependency injection very poorly.
They make lot of choices and the tool does give you a lot of versatility but you can't shoot yourself
in the foot with it. Just because you do have these options doesn't mean that you should use these options
just like anything else. It is a tool that you have options and the the framework doesn't always prevent
you from making bad choices.
So when we talk about dependency injection and object oriented programming there there are three primary
ways that you can do Dependency Injection. One you can wear a dependency through a property set so that
up right on our property then we can go to traditional POJO where we have getters and setters and then
do Dependency Injection against a setter and allow the setter to set that properties and set the property
through a set or also a perfectly valid approach.
And then finally being that Java is Object Oriented Language, we can take that dependency and provide
a constructor for it and build that object at runtime when we construct that object.
Use the constructors to set the dependency.
So now that there are good things and bad things about all these different approaches but ultimately
there are some best practices that you do want to be utilizing in this video.
I am going to go through these different types of dependency injection show you examples of each.
And we're going to evolve from probably a very poor practice to what I consider and most of the Spring
community considers best practices around dependency injection.
So this is a short video but I hope you find a lot of information about how you can write quality Spring
Framework code in your own applications.
Alright in this video I want to talk about dependency injection and some of the best practices within Spring
Framework. And there's a couple different things that we can go through as far as dependency injection
goes.
And I've seen a lot of very very bad practices in use with dependency injection.
So I've set up a little demo for us to work with here and it's going to be a little live wide coding here
as I go through the different examples but what I have here is I'm emulating a controller.
And with what we have as a CustomerController and he hard wires and a CustomerService and I'm using
that as a pseudo database object that just kind of pretending here that it's a database object and that
CustomerService takes in a database URL, a username and password.
And to be honest I've actually seen this in production databases where they have things hard coded like
this.
And it is awful to work with.
So this is a very very bad practice that I'm showing you here as part of a demonstration. We are going to
refactor of this to make our lives a little bit better.
So let's go ahead and I am going to come in here and do an alt + enter and we're going to create a test for our controller
and we want to test customer method and do a setUp method as well.
And we're just going to use JUnit 4,
and we're going to bring in the SpringRunner and call it a SpringBootTest and this is going to bring
up the full context.
So Spring of the full context and here let's go inject and say CustomerController.
Let's run this test
and thats actually.
Actually use the wrapper type there.
It's a pretty simple test here we're not really going to test anything this more exercise the Spring
context. So I want to bring in bring up this Spring context so let's go and make sure this does run and what
I'm expecting to do is Spring, the Spring context is going to come up and it is going to pick up that
bean, the CustomerController and we can see here that I did get the Customer from database. So just
to show you the implementation my CustomerService.
So I have a print line there getting the customer from the database which is showing down here again
customer from database so that did run.
So that's going to be our test to make sure that the class runs as we go through these different options
for autowiring this up.
Let's come back to our CustomerController.
Now as you may know there's different types of dependency injection.
The simplest would be to do
and do it that way and let's go ahead and what I'm going to say now that we've refactored this Customer
Service to managed objects. So we're going to manage our CustomerService manage object using the Spring
Framework.
So this goes away.
Now I can say autowire this and here CustomerService.
Now.
There are ways to manage this inside of
Spring I'm not going to get into that so let's pretend that Spring is going to take over
the management of this component.
So Spring is going to provide us a CustomerService so I don't have to do all that configuration.
So this is a good practice because we're getting away from setting the database URL and passwords here.
So that has now gone from our projects I'm just going to delete that altogether and we're going to pretend
that the object is being managed by the Spring context because now I've set this up as this as a Component
actually let's call it a Service make a little more sense here.
And these annotations here.
Controller, Component and Service those are Spring stereotypes and those stereotypes behave the same.
So people ask what are the differences for these three.
There is no underlying difference to the Spring Framework. They function the same. They are more to express the
intent so I'm calling this a Service.
The other thing I'm calling Controller.
The core thing to remember Sprint pretty much treats the same underneath the covers but they are Spring
managed components now. So they get brought into the Spring context.
So now I've declared that as a Service.
Now let's take a look at the CustomerController.
So the Controller is a Spring component and we are autowiring it by a public property this time.
So we are going to go ahead and autowire that so let's go ahead and run our test.
Make sure that runs.
So that still runs.
Now that is a public property and what you'll see sometimes is people do this.
And so I don't have a constructor but now I have private property.
Now do you think this is going to run.
Let's take a look.
So this does infact run this runs properly.
And the problem here is and I've seen some very experienced people do this and actually on production
type code and actually got on a conversation with somebody that actually has a fairly good bit of Spring
knowledge.
And we talked about this and like that's a pretty poor practice because basically what you're saying
is that you don't want to be able run a unit test against this class while you could but it take a lot
of hacking and underneath the covers with the Spring Framework is doing as it is using Reflection is
probably going in and adding a constructor for that property to the class at runtime. So it's going to
use Reflection for you to go ahead and modify that class at runtime or write a constructor for it and
inject that property for it because it is private property so it can't be accessed from the outside
world without doing something like that. For you as a developer you're not going to go through all that
rigmarole of handling that.
And that becomes a real headache to do.
If you want to unit test.
So when I see somebody auto wiring private properties like this directly I think that is a very bad
practice something you definitely do not want to be doing. Because you're effectively saying I don't want to
unit test this class.
So this to test in this class is going to be managed by a Spring Framework always. If I want to test
it I'm going to have to do it inside an integration test like we are here because just a quick reminder
when I bring up the ControllerTest. Once I add this this is now an integration test because we are bringing
up the Spring context is no longer technically a unit test.
So now it's an integration test because we are bring up the Spring context and you can see even though
I have a very very light project and I am on a practically brand new Mac Book Pro and it's a screamer
it still takes 44 milliseconds to run that one test.
Now if you had hundreds of tests this would be very slow.
Something that we don't want on our test unit test should be light and fast.
So that's the important contrast here.
So what we could do here is one thing we can do is make this come back here and we can come in and add
in a setter for this.
And now we will be down there.
We move Autowired to this the setter.
Let's go out and run this and this is an example of autowiring by a setter.
So this is setter based dependency injection and this isn't a bad bad habit.
I used to prefer using setter based dependency injection.
And actually the older real real older versions of Spring used to be a little bit buggy with constructor
based dependency injection and it is not necessarily a bad thing.
That was just the nature of Spring at the time but now the constructor based dependency injection is
really rock solid.
I'm talking like in version 2.5 Spring so has a long long time ago.
I hope nobody listening in this video is actually using version 2.5 of Spring still but I digress.
The important part here is that you do have the option to use setter based dependency injection and
this is a much better scenario than autowiring the private property directly.
Now we've created a setter for it.
We don't have a getter.
So the setter in theory, the class at runtime could be modified so that is the one downside.
We can also create the class without that dependency injected.
So that is another downside of that.
So how how do you get around that.
What we can do is get rid of this
and come up with the constructor
and now we can autowire by the constructor so this is an example constructor based dependency injection.
So let's go ahead and run that and we can see that runs properly.
So now now this is a better scenario because we are running the constructor and we can not instantiate
this class.
Now one argument for the setter based dependency injection is by default.
The framework will throw an exception if you do not set that a dependency.
Now we are enforcing that dependency to be injected through the principles of object oriented design.
So this is a much better scenario but something in that, a downside of this here is this could be modified
somehow at runtime so it is good to make this a final.
So now we have a final property. So lets go and make sure that still runs. And what final says is that
just as a reminder inside of Java says, that once I set this  that cannot be changed.
So this is a final variable.
You get set inside the constructor and it can never be changed.
So if I try to set it, make sure if this..
So now we can say that this is squawking inside the compiler and the Java compiler actually complains
so that until it is yelling at me and so is a Java compiler so I can't go ahead and break that.
So you know there are ways around that.
So but ultimately Java will smack you down and say no you can't do that so that that is a good
habit to get into.
Now there's one other thing here that I'm not too happy about.
We are going against a concrete type.
So this CustomerService here is a class of this is a concrete type we are not going against an interface.
So interfaces are something good to code against.
Generally especially in dependency injection because right now with the dependency injection we are
expecting an instance of that class, that type to be injected.
But now it's going and change.
So I'm going to come in here do a right click on that and come to refactor
Abstract to interface and I want to name it Customer Service, so I want
rename the original class. So do CustomerService
Impl. Rename that.
And we want to bring that member in.
So now we can see that IntelliJ did the refactoring for us. So our implementation of that has been named
CustomerServiceImpl.
We implement the CustomerService interface. CustomerService interface has that one method getCustomer
fromDB.
Now lets take a look at CustomerController and you can see the nice job IntelliJ.
We are still using the interface here inside the CustomerController.
But now we are doing dependency injection of CustomerService
inside the controller. So lets go ahead and make sure that it still runs.
And now we can see that is in fact running.
OK.
So now one thing that we can do here is drop the Autowired annotation. So I think it was in Spring
4.3 that became optional.
Now that we have a constructor and it doesn't matter if it's a hard type or an interface with this buzz.
As long as you have one constructor and the properties of the constructor can be resolved by the Spring
Framework,
it will do the dependency injection for us.
Let's go ahead and run that. So now we can see that it does in fact run.
OK.
So for the reasons that I've outlined here you can see now that we are doing Dependency Injection against
an interface through a constructor. So this gives us the most flexibility and is the best in terms of
hearing two object oriented principles because we are injecting against the interface so if I want to
test this class outside of that hard implementation type I could easily create a Mock up that I could
create a test instance of that when I am running that CustomerService implementation.
I set it up to be act as a Mock database.
It could go against a web service, it could go against a message queue.
So we could have scenarios while we are injecting multiple implementations for different use cases
within our organization. So it gives us a lot of versatility both at runtime in our production environments.
And as the application evolves and for testing it also gives us a lot of versatility and testing because
now if I'm testing that CustomerController that's pretty simple if I'm using a JUnit or Mockito. I can
easily create a Mock and inject that into test time.
And I don't need a full blown integration test or if I'm using Spark I'm a big fan of Spark also that
has a very nice mocking framework.
I could do that or I could even write my own implementation for a test.
So there's a lot of versatility having that interface there.
And this here and what I'm showing you here is where you have a private final variable and that's you
using an interface and a constructor that is setting that property inside for your dependency injection.
That is generally accepted as a best practice when you are doing dependency injection both with Java
in general and the Spring Framework.
This wraps up my video on dependency injection and the best practices around a dependency injection using the
Spring Framework. As you can see
my preference is to take a final property, set that up and use a constructor to set that property so
you cannot create that object without injecting the dependency and that dependency once it is set it
cannot be changed.
So this is considered best practice a little maybe a little overly paranoid for some it does lose some
flexibility.
I've had people ask well where do a constructor.
And we are injecting a lot of dependencies.
And that's a lot of parameters to inject into the constructor.
Yes it is.
And if you do have that case and that is a specific use case where you are injecting a number of classes
into your class through dependency injection and like wow you have a lot of stuff to inject in your constructor
you might want to take a step back though.
Maybe this class is doing too much and maybe need to refactor your code because having a lot of properties
in a constructor is a code smell because chances are that object is doing more than one thing.
So remember a single responsibility principle where your classes should have one function only.
If you have a half dozen dependencies being injected into a constructor or setters something doesn't
smell right with your code so you should step back and take a look at them.
But generally inside the Spring community, the generally accepted principle right now is to use what
I showed you to use dependency injection against an interface have that as a final property and inject
it through a constructor.